TO IMPLEMENT:

- Display mission details
- Assign crewmembers to missions
- Properly generate and store enemies
- Start and complete missions
- Generate gear/rewards
- Mission cost/reward/XP system

BASIC FLOW:

1. List of available missions (3 - 6?) Basic mission info is shown for each one.
    - How often are these generated/regenerated?
        - When available # falls below a min (3)?
        - On a timer?
        - Random number (0 - all) regenerated after each selection?
    - Have lower tier missions be completely randomly generated, with special or story missions appearing at timed or random intervals?
    - Chance to generate higher-tier missions, with increased difficulty, but also greater rewards (more of the mission reward item, chance for additional mats or a special item)
    - Missions have a chance to generate an extra threat, that doesn't affect base mission stats, but if countered it grants additional rewards. If the same threat type already exists, the mission will require an extra counter of that type to cover the additional threat. In other words, each counter only covers one instance of the threat, with the base mission threat being covered first.
    
    Mission generation steps:
        1. Select mission type (money, resources, gear, new crew, intel, etc.)
        2. Select subtype, if relevant (resource type, gear type [weapon, armor])
        3. Roll for mission rarity (normal, 75%+ chance, above average, maybe 1 in 6, rare, 1 in 20-25, epic, 1 in 100+)
        4. Generate mission requirements (length, party size, cost, rewards)

2. Click on a desired mission

3. Detailed mission info is shown in a popup, giving a brief description of the mission, listing enemies and their abilities, showing mission rewards, and showing empty slots for each of the needed crew members (one slot for each needed).

4. Clicking on an empty slot brings up a list of all crew members in another popup.
    - Only show available, or show all, with available sorted to the top?
    - Show most eligible party members at the top? Favor higher-leveled over lower-leveled, favor more counters over fewer, favor higher-ranked over lower-ranked (epic over rare over uncommon, etc), higher-geared over lower-geared.
    - Show crew name, level, gear level, relevant abilities, rank

5. Clicking on a crew member selects them for that slot
    - Update UI to show altered mission time, success chance, threats countered, rewards, etc.
    - As long as at least one slot is filled, allow the "Start Mission" button to be clicked.

6. When "Start Mission" button is clicked, start the mission!
    - Remove started mission from available missions list, add started mission to current missions list. Flag mission's crew members as on mission. 

Crew members have a specialization that grants them extra success chance on certain mission types (perhaps just a chance of specialization, rather than locking each to a spec?). Ranking up grants (guaranteed?) additional specializations, or strengthening of existing spec. Perhaps 60% chance to increase existing, 40% chance to add additional spec.
Specs can be retrained for a cost in gold and time.

Crew members also have one to several abilities (tied to spec at all? Additional granted by spec?). These can counter enemy threats on missions. Each ability can counter one threat.

Crew members also can have (and learn?) traits, which grant bonuses when faced with certain types of threats (for example, +20% chance of success when facing slowing abilities, increased rewards when successfully countering mental threats, etc.)

Mission Rewards:
    // These rewards have an amount, and increase the relevant counter
    Gold
    Resources:
        Leather,
        Cloth,
        Steel,
        Wood,
        Stone, 
        Food

    // These rewards are one apiece, and add to inventory or crew
    Equipment:
        Armor,
        Weapons,
        Trinkets (not till max level)
    Crew

    // These rewards modify base game stats/settings, except for learning new skills, which would probably be an item that gets applied to a crewmember, so inventory?
    Special:
        Learn a new skill
        Increase crew capacity
        Decrease costs/times

Needed constructs:

Mission:
    Type
    Base duration
    Enemy List
    Level/gear requirement
    Rewards list
    Crew list

Crewmember:
    Level
    Gear level
    Rank
    Abilities
    Specialization

Ability:
    Name
    Type
    Description

Specialization:
    Name
    Description

Enemy:
    Name
    Abilities
    Rank
    Gear level

MissionType
    Kill, favors Bloodlust
    Collect, favors Keen Eye
    Defend, favors Unflinching
    Scout, favors Stealthy
    Ward, favors Thaumaturge

AbilityType
    Reduced success chance (physical):
        Crushing, countered by Unbreaking Bulwark
        Horde, countered by Storm Of Fire
        Armored, countered by Melt Steel
    
    Reduced success chance (magic):
        Fireblast, countered by Quenching Rain
        Arcane Storm, countered by Arcane Annulment
        Rune of Aegis, countered by Dispel Magic

    Reduced success chance (mental):
        Intimidate, countered by Hymn Of Courage
        Reaving Shout, countered by Heroic Stance
        Aura of Bones, countered by Death Hath No Fury
    
    Increased mission time:
        Web, countered by Scorch
        Torpor, countered by Invigorate
        Quagmire, countered by Levitate
    
    Increased mission cost:
        Rough Terrain, countered by Cushioned Saddle
        Toll Roads, countered by Friends In High Places
        In The Sticks, countered by Teleport

        Specialization("Bloodlust", "A born warrior, who lives for the onrush of battle.")
        Specialization("Keen Eye", "An eagle-eyed hunter, finder of obscured things.")
        Specialization("Unflinching", "With nerves of steel, this guardian stands unbending.")
        Specialization("Stealthy", "Just a whisper on the wind, a mere flicker at the edge of vision, quick to the find, and quick to escape.")
        Specialization("Thaumaturge", "Ancient magics snake in tendrils from the scholar's learned fingertips.")

        HeroAbility("Unbreaking Bulwark", "Your blacksmiths have crafted reinforced shields, which your stoutest fighters wield to repulse even the mightiest blows.")
        HeroAbility("Storm Of Fire", "Your mages conjure a whirling tower of flame, cowing the enemy minions into desperate flight.")
        HeroAbility("Melt Steel", "Searing blasts of arcane heat from your mages reduce enemy armor to dripping puddles, revealing the soft flesh beneath, ripe for the cutting.")
        HeroAbility("Quenching Rain", "Your shamans whisper stormwords, bringing great rainshowers to bear on the threatening flames. Soon, only wisps of steam remain.")
        HeroAbility("Arcane Annulment", "Energy barriers block the arcane energy, and the blasts bounce harmlessly back into the ether.")
        HeroAbility("Dispel Magic", "Your mages' gutteral phrases send runic lightning blasting through the enemy spellshields, shattering the glimmering defenses.")
        HeroAbility("Hymn Of Courage", "Your bards' strong voices waft in song over your troops, raising a bold chant to the skies, and bringing courage rushing back to wavering hearts.")
        HeroAbility("Heroic Stance", "Your champions plant themselves in fearless bearing, a sturdy example that bolsters your troops and grants fresh boldness.")
        HeroAbility("Death Hath No Fury", "One of your bards cracks a crude joke about the enemy, and the ensuing laughter cuts through the mental fog, revealing promise of great glory in battle.")
        HeroAbility("Scorch", "A quick-thinking mage wreathes you in a flash of fire that burns away all bindings, and leaves a nice new sheen on your armor, to boot!")
        HeroAbility("Invigorate", "Your commissary brings steaming draughts of sharp liquor, that burns all sluggishness away as it courses through your body.")
        HeroAbility("Levitate", "Your mages twist spacetime briefly, pulling you up from the mire and allowing your company to float to solid ground.")
        HeroAbility("Cushioned Saddle", "Your sure-footed horses can pick their way through all dangers of the road, and your saddle's padding prevents soreness at the end of the bumpy day.")
        HeroAbility("Friends In High Places", "A quick missive to your cousin at court grants you a diplomatic visa, and a full refund for all tolls incurred.")
        HeroAbility("Teleport", "Arcanic stones are expensive, sure, but the portals you open with them to allow instantaneous transfers of supplies are still far cheaper than the price-gouging mule-train owners.")

        EnemyAbility("Crushing", "This enemy rains heavy blows upon foes, demolishing armor and breaking bones.")
        EnemyAbility("Horde", "This enemy has an entourage of footsoldiers, threatening to overwhelm any who approach.")
        EnemyAbility("Armored", "Thick plates of sturdy metals deflect even the fiercest blows, giving blades no purchase and no hope of victory.")
        EnemyAbility("Fireblast", "An explosion of flame and heat sears skin and turns armor from protecting shell to infernal entrapment.")
        EnemyAbility("Arcane Storm", "The air glows and cracks with blue-white magic, and eldritch tendrils snake through metal and hide alike, lashing the life beneath.")
        EnemyAbility("Rune Of Aegis", "An impassable barrier of pure mana prevents all foes from approaching the caster.")
        EnemyAbility("Intimidate", "The necklace of scalps, the blood-drenched blade, and the smoldering eyes signal that this enemy harbors great skill in battle, and no mercy for attackers.")
        EnemyAbility("Reaving Shout", "A fearsome roar that somehow carries both physical and psychic force, chilling the hearts of all who hear it.")
        EnemyAbility("Aura Of Bones", "Death seeps in ashen strands from the fingers of this enemy, and foliage withers to dust as they pass.")
        EnemyAbility("Web", "Sticky cords wrap around you, encasing your extremities in an entangling mesh.")
        EnemyAbility("Torpor", "A heavy weariness seeps through your blood, and your legs become too heavy to lift. All you want is to close your leaden eyes and leave your toils forever.")
        EnemyAbility("Quagmire", "The solid grounds suddenly gives way to sucking muck, that grasps at your legs and pulls you down towards its dark and inexorable depths.")
        EnemyAbility("Rough Terrain", "These paths have seen no travelers for an age, and thick roots and vines obscure the sharp rocks and dangerous holes beneath. One wrong step threatens to snap bones and shatter equipment, and your staff balks without hazard pay.")
        EnemyAbility("Toll Roads", "Your convoy passes through a foreign country with heavy fees for those who are merely visiting. Next time, maybe buy something while you're passing through!")
        EnemyAbility("In The Sticks", "Your destination lies far from any supply depot, and you are forced to import supplies by mule, whose owners demand a high premium.")
        
        MissionType("Kill", "Defeat your foes.")
        MissionType("Collect", "Find helpful supplies.")
        MissionType("Defend", "Repel the invaders.")
        MissionType("Scout", "Survey new territories.")
        MissionType("Ward", "Protect against encroaching magic.")

        AbilityType("Reduced success chance: physical", "Overwhelming force cows all but the most stalwart, threatening to turn victory into defeat.")
        AbilityType("Reduced success chance: magic", "Neither blade nor bow nor buckler can stand against the ancient rites, and warriors' boldness turns to blanching retreat.")
        AbilityType("Reduced success chance: mental", "Sword and spell cannot avail once fear and doubt enter the mind, and fear of defeat makes defeat all the more certain.")
        AbilityType("Increased mission time", "Though courage flags not, both enemies and elements conspire to delay and impede, doing all they may to avoid or postpone the conflict.")
        AbilityType("Increased mission cost", "Strength and steel alone do not win the war; blades do not swing without the backing of pay and provisions.")

        AbilityType("Increased success chance: physical", "Fearless in the fray, unshaken in the onrush, the unbowed strength of the guardian forges victory from daunting odds.")
        AbilityType("Increased success chance: magic", "Not all magical arts destroy; the wise wizards also use their arcanism to defend and heal their companions, and negate enemy magicks.")
        AbilityType("Increased success chance: mental", "Steadying the mind and drawing courage from comrades will steady the hands and draw battle lines more amenable to triumph.")
        AbilityType("Decreased mission time", "Wise planning, sharp eyes, and preparation aforehand will annul and forestall the obstacles laid by both nature and one's foes.")
        AbilityType("Decreased mission cost", "Shrewd tongues, well-placed allies, and judicious use of arcane manupulation can ease both the strife, the journey, and the pocketbook.")